it'd be cool to understand your pet's
language imagine you're walking your dog
and suddenly
hey owner look at that guy i feel like
he's a bad person
let's go away woof or you leave the
house
and your cat lying on the couch says
buddy yo
take the umbrella my tail says it'll be
raining
and food get me some more food in
general
our pets could tell us a lot that's
because they have a superpower
their sense organs eyes ears feet or
paws
and hair whiskers and fur are much more
developed than those of people
our pets get a bunch of information from
the outside world
pets can see and hear what you can't
animals also have a super intuition
they can anticipate dangerous situations
and moreover
help their beloved person but here's the
problem
they can't speak the human language so
behavior is their primary way to
communicate
there's a whole science that studies
animal behavior
zoo psychology of course it's different
from human psychology
after all such specialists can only
observe behavior
and draw conclusions what if a zoo
psychologist could talk to your pet
just imagine a gray cat comes into a zoo
psychologist's office for a consultation
hi simba how are you take a seat on the
sofa
the cat jumps onto the table no doc i'm
more comfortable here
anyway i decide where to sit okay
tell me what problems you have none i
eat sleep play and run around the yard
sometimes i flip something over but it
doesn't bother me
i don't like the weather autumn rain i
have to sleep a lot
uh by the way simba do you really feel
weather changes
people don't well sometimes when the
atmospheric pressure goes down or up we
have a headache
but without a window or a weather
forecast we don't know what the
weather's like
well doc it's as easy as always landing
on your feet
just look to us if we sleep with our
backs to the fireplace or radiator
it'll be severe frost or snow if a
thunderstorm is approaching
i usually rush around the house but
sometimes i do that just for fun
if i look out the window for a long time
it'll rain
although i might just be watching the
neighbor's dog i
really don't like him interesting
could you feel something more serious an
earthquake or other natural disaster
sure we live in a calm seismic zone but
i've heard stories
my great great great grandparents were
from italy and they told me what
in 1944 in a small town near naples
an elderly couple was going to bed their
cat
toto started acting strangely toto
nervously ran around searching for a
place to hide
he even refused dinner whoa in bed toto
woke the man
up by pawing at his cheeks his wife told
the man that toto was trying to warn
them
i beg you let's go to my sister's place
they quickly packed up and left mount
vesuvius erupted that night
lava completely covered their town
meanwhile the couple and their cat were
in a safe place
that's a fantastic story simba but i
really don't understand how toto felt
the danger
i'll explain it before a natural
disaster
many changes happen in the environment
before an earthquake
various chemicals are released from the
layers of the earth
they come into contact with air and form
positively charged
ions they in turn change the composition
of air
water and soil and cats with our senses
catch these changes so animals can
detect even minor changes in the earth's
magnetic and electric fields
and people can't determine such
cataclysms doc
a person at a subconscious level may
feel danger approaching
our pulse may become more frequent and
our nervous system may become excited
but people switch on their logic and
typically ignore their feelings
we have many devices that detect
fluctuations in the earth's crust
but they don't determine the exact time
animals begin to behave
unusually long before the start of an
earthquake
over 40 years ago in china seismologists
suggested a strong earthquake would
occur
in about a year but no one knew the
exact date
so they decided to keep their eyes on
animals
in a few months people started reporting
strange animal behavior
dogs howled cats hid and left the house
chickens and ducks flew to the rooftops
even snakes woke up and crawled out into
the snow
scientists raised the alarm and took the
locals to a safe place
a 7.3 earthquake occurred eight hours
later
since then asian scientists have been
closely studying
animal behavior they discovered that
when danger approaches
cats meow loudly their fur stands on end
their ears flatten often they try to
leave home with their kittens
dogs whine bark and may even bite
that's why i always keep away from dogs
doc what about fish and birds
residents of dangerous zones often keep
canaries at home
when they feel an earthquake is close
the birds start to chirp
fearfully and flap their wings in japan
where earthquakes are frequent
many people keep goldfish when danger is
coming
their fish start to behave restlessly
humans are often inattentive you know
sometimes i admire beautiful things for
a long time
and my owners think there's a ghost
they just don't know the structure of a
cat's eye can catch the tiniest things
like a ray of light on a speck of dust
to us
it seems like you're looking at empty
space cats can also see ultraviolet
light
and your field of vision is 295 degrees
with this vision cats have helped people
more than once
hey have you heard this story in
malaysia
an elderly woman was at home with her
cat the cat was acting strangely
it stubbornly looked first at its owner
and then at the ceiling
the woman followed the cat's gaze and
saw a man
on the roof it was probably a burglar
who made his way to the attic to get
into the house
the man realized he was discovered and
fled
oh and here's another one a girl
returned from school and went to the
garden with her cat
they settled comfortably at a table the
cat was on her knees
suddenly it jumped on the table its
first stood on in
and it began to hiss loudly the girl
looked up and saw a dangling snake
the cat pulled the snake from the tree
in one leaf and grabbed it with its
teeth
the cat defeated the viper wow how could
a person not notice a snake
well it's because in the modern world
people have lost their self-preservation
instinct
we don't need to get food or hide from
dangerous animals
we're too busy with routine mental
activity and logic
yeah sometimes it seems to me i might
feel something is a mess
i hear vibrations even in people i often
wonder if it's an illness
[Music]
and by the way i can smell many things
of course because a cat's sense of smell
is many times stronger than a person's
in fact you're not sniffing with your
nose but with
jacobson's organ this is located behind
the front teeth on your palate
but a cat's sense of smell is also safe
people more than once
in new zealand your namesake saved a
teenager
he was in his garage in the evening he
lit a candle and fell asleep
the candle started a fire the boy's
parents were sleeping in the house and
didn't notice any smoke
their cat simba reacted instantly
it meowed and ran around banging against
the garage door
the adults rushed to the garage and
called the firefighters
yeah we cats are truly amazing you know
i can sense bad
people if i hiss at someone i don't like
them
it might be my intuition scientists also
don't fully understand it
because we're one of the most mysterious
creatures in the world
ah but very cute meow